Network Working Group                                     L. Freitas, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                             Canimandra Lab
Intended status: Informational                              June 24, 2026
Expires: December 24, 2026


                 The Whostyle Protocol (V2) Specification
                       draft-freitas-whostyle-20

Abstract

   This document defines Whostyle Protocol V2, a structured, data-driven 
   format for syndicating personal typographic and cosmetic styles 
   across decentralized web platforms (e.g., the IndieWeb, Fediverse).
   By constraining user-defined styles to a strict subset of design 
   tokens encoded via mathematical bitpacking into a 45-byte Base64 hash, 
   this specification enables host platforms to render third-party 
   syndicated content while guaranteeing layout integrity, performance, 
   accessibility, and mitigation of CSS injection vulnerabilities.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is in full conformance with the provisions of
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174].

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

1.  Introduction

   Decentralized web interactions, such as Webmentions [W3C.REC-webmention],
   often strip the original author's visual identity when displaying 
   syndicated responses on a host platform. Prior attempts to preserve 
   visual identity relied on raw CSS injection or IFrames, 
   introducing severe security vectors and high computational overhead.
   Version 1.1 of this specification utilized a JSON payload, but the 
   parsing overhead and file size constraints proved suboptimal.

   Whostyle V2 solves these design flaws by abstracting cosmetic 
   styles into a mathematical bitpacked hash (e.g., {ws2:...}). 
   This format translates styling into non-executable design data, 
   eliminating structural layout properties (such as position, display, 
   and float) and third-party asset loading (such as external web fonts).

2.  Discovery Mechanism

   To apply a Whostyle identity, the author's platform MUST broadcast 
   the styling data Hash within the syndicated text or HTML document.

2.1.  Meta Tag Discovery (Recommended)

   The author SHOULD embed the payload directly within the source 
   document's <head> using a meta tag.

   Example representation in HTML:
   <meta name="whostyle" content="{ws2:1mBxq6lG0u0uG0u1g1E4a4a1g1E2e2e}">

2.2.  Inline Text Discovery (Fallback)

   If embedding in the <head> is not feasible (such as in comment systems 
   that only allow raw text), the author MAY include the hash directly in 
   the body text. Host engines MUST scan the raw text for the regex pattern:
   {ws2:[A-Za-z0-9\-_]{39}}

3.  Hash Specification

   A Whostyle Hash MUST consist of exactly 45 characters, formatted as:
   {ws2:CCCCCCCxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx}

   Where:
   - "{ws2:" (5 chars) is the protocol prefix.
   - "C" (7 chars) is the Base64 representation of the integer Configuration state.
   - "x" (32 chars) is the Base64 representation of the 8 Theme Colors.
   - "}" (1 char) is the suffix.

3.1. Base64 Alphabet

   The encoding MUST strictly use the following 64-character alphabet:
   ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789-_

4.  Configuration Bitpacking (Radixes)

   The first 7 Base64 characters encode an integer that represents the 
   stylistic configuration. The integer is calculated by sequentially 
   multiplying properties by their maximum bounds (radixes).

   The bounds are:
   - typography: 28
   - transform: 4
   - align: 4
   - list: 5
   - border_style: 10
   - bg_texture: 32
   - border_width: 7
   - border_radius: 17
   - shadow_offset: 9
   - shadow_blur: 9
   - letter_spacing: 26

   The maximum theoretical integer state is ~179.6 billion, which easily 
   fits within standard 64-bit integer limits (and JS Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER).

5.  Processing and Host Enforcement Rules

5.1.  Strict Structural Omission

   Host implementations MUST NOT parse, translate, or inject structural layout 
   properties from the syndicated entity. Properties including, but not 
   limited to, "position", "display", "float", "clear", "width", "height", 
   "z-index", "margin", and "padding" are explicitly forbidden to ensure the 
   host platform retains absolute authority over document geometry.

5.2.  Accessibility and Contrast Validation

   Prior to rendering, the host implementation SHOULD calculate the relative 
   luminance contrast ratio between the "background" color and all foreground 
   colors in accordance with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1.

   If the computed contrast ratio is less than 4.5:1, the host engine MUST 
   override the colors to ensure legibility.

6.  Security Considerations

   Whostyle V2 addresses major security concerns associated with arbitrary 
   CSS ingestion. By avoiding raw stylesheet parsing, parsing libraries are 
   immune to CSS-based data exfiltration, blind injection attacks, and regular 
   expression Denial of Service (ReDoS) vulnerabilities. The 45-byte hash 
   prevents bandwidth exhaustion.

7.  References

   [W3C.REC-webmention]
              Sande, C., "Webmention", W3C Recommendation REC-
              webmention-20170112, January 2017,
              <https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/>.

Author's Address

   Lumen Freitas (Editor)
   Canimandra Lab
   Santo Amaro da Imperatriz, SC
   Brazil
